The new tech guy.

Machine learning, Data Science, Web (UI) design, Backend, DevOps, Android and Desktop, are fields that interests me. What do I do? 

It take a lot of work and effort to get your feet neatly wet in Machine learning. Provided you have the thing for it, then go for it. Invest more time and effort into it and amaze the world. Take this advice and apply it to all of the above fields. What do you see? A jack of all trades and a master of none? Of course you can start somewhere and pick it one after the other and grow from there. I won't advice you to do that and even if I might do that I would say do it based on your interests and resources at hand. Your knowledge comes to play here and your expectation as well. You want to quickly see your output since a novice knowing and seeing what you have done and accomplished also plays a huge role in your motivation.

I want to start coding as soon as possible, what do I do?

There are basically two paths thats quite simple to begin with, the scripting way and the web way. The scripting way is when you learn programming from zero. You can take an introductory course in C - CS50, python or c++ - DS Malik. SICP is also a good start if you are deed. Python alternative for that course also exists. So you have to learn and understand some programming concepts and how to use then. The second approach is actually, web development where you learn html and css with some javascript. Later you learn nodejs. I won't say trust me but try to learn as much as you can and don't hoard a lot of activitys at the same time. Don't learn C++, Java, Python, C, Kotlin, HTML, Ruby, etc all at the same time. Know what you need and invest some time into it.

I am taking a C++ (language) course in school, what should I do?

C++ will provide you with a very good foundation in programming. For personal interest, I will encourage you get ahead of the class and read other C++ materials and practice more. For school, get the syllabus and work smartly hand-in-hand with the lecturer. For a small group with other interested mates and let the lecturer or the TA's know so they can provide some sort of assistance if need be (Some schools will already have these group thing set up as part of the course). Finally, one thing that comes in mind is not to get far ahead of yourself, personally. Remember, you are in school and learning for school so do not stress.


